=== PAGE 5 ===
Questionnaire / Survey (Q)
Demographic data (e.g.age, sex/gender, diabetes duration, race/ethnicity, etc.)
Activity Tracker (A)
Heart rateStep countSleep metricsSkin temperatureAccelerometry dataGalvanic skin response
Insulin Delivery System (I)
Insulin dosesCarbohydrate input
Continuous Glucose Monitor (G)
Glucose
Self-Report / Mobile App (S)
User logs (e.g.meal, exercise, medication, life events)
Medical Record / Clinical Measurement (M) 
Lab measurements (e.g.oral glucose test, hemoglobin A1C, cholesterol, triglycerides, etc.)ShanghaiT1DM: G, S, Q, MDiaTrend: G, I, Q, MBIG IDEAs: G, A, Q, MT1DEXI: G, I, A, S, Q, MOhioT1DM: G, I, A, S, QCGMacros: G, A, S, Q, MUCHTT1DM: G, I, A, SAI-READI: G, A, Q, MT1DiabetesGranada: G, Q, MShanghaiT2DM: G, S, Q, MGlucose-ML CollectionFigure 1: Overview of data types included within individual datasets in the Glucose-ML collection.
record/clinical measurements. Fig. 1 presents a comparative overview of various data sources and
data types across individual datasets in the Glucose-ML collection. From this figure, we can observe
that the T1DEXI dataset is potentially the most comprehensive dataset as it includes glucose data,
insulin-related data (e.g. insulin doses and carbohydrate input), activity tracker data (e.g. heart rate,
step count, sleep metrics), user logs (e.g., meals, exercise), demographic data (e.g. age, sex/gender,
diabetes duration), and lab measurements (e.g. hemoglobin A1C). However, T1DEXI comprise a
population of people with T1D only, and mean data duration is 27 days/person as shown in Table 1.
Fig. 2A presents a comparison of the populations and sample size represented in each individual
dataset within the Glucose-ML collection. From this figure, we can observe that there are between
12 - 1067 participants in each individual dataset. Five out of the ten datasets are solely from cohorts
with T1D (50%), one dataset is solely from a cohort with T2D (10%), while the remaining four
datasets include participants with T2D, prediabetes, and no diabetes (20%), T1D and no diabetes
(10%) and prediabetes and no diabetes (10%). From Fig. 2B, we see that there are between 127 -
257,782 days of CGM data in each dataset. The majority of longitudinal diabetes datasets (80%)
include short durations of glucose data per participant (i.e., less than 60 days). Only DiaTrend [ 89]
and T1DiabetesGranada [ 96] include long durations of glucose data per participant (i.e., more than 6
months, and in many cases, multiple years of longitudinal glucose data).
Given that glucose data in these longitudinal diabetes datasets is collected via wearable CGMs,
missing data is not uncommon. Clinical consensus guidelines recommend the availability of more
than 70% of possible CGM readings to provide adequate glucose data for evaluating diabetes
management [ 11,25]. Therefore, in this study we leverage insights from prior work to identify
missing CGM data when glucose readings are not present for more than three times the expected
sampling rate of the distinct CGM used within each dataset (i.e., Dexcom, Medtronic, or FreeStyle
Libre CGMs) [ 23,32,107]. For example, a Dexcom G6 CGM generally records glucose data
every 5 minutes. Therefore, a period of missing data is identified when the difference between two
consecutive timestamps of glucose readings has a duration of 15 minutes or more. Fig. 2C presents
an overview of the percentage of CGM days with adequate (i.e., ??0%) versus inadequate glucose
data for each dataset. From this figure, we can observe that all datasets included in our collection
have sufficient glucose data (i.e., < 25% missing data) within the data collection period of each study.
Finally, we compared the blood glucose dynamics of participants within each dataset using clinically-
validated metrics, namely time in glucose ranges [ 11]. These metrics quantify the percentage of
glucose readings that are within the target/normal range of 70 - 180 mg/dL (TIR), below the target
range (TBR), and above the target range (TAR). Fig. 2D presents an overview of the percentage of
blood glucose values within the five clinically-relevant target ranges for each dataset. It is important
to note that we only calculate the time in various glucose ranges on days with adequate glucose
data (i.e., > 70% of CGM data available). From Fig. 2D, we can observe that DiaTrend [ 89] has
the lowest TIR of 51%, whereas the clinical recommendation for persons with T1D is to maintain a
5

=== PAGE 6 ===
AB
C
D
Figure 2: Comparative analysis of sample size and population (A), longitudinal glucose duration (B),
data quality and sufficiency (C), and glucose dynamics (D) across 10 public diabetes datasets.
target TIR of greater than 70% [ 11]. This significant difference between real-world blood glucose
control in DiaTrend and the clinical recommendation shows that the DiaTrend dataset is the most
dynamic and potentially the most challenging dataset to be used for developing and evaluating robust
AI algorithms for populations with T1D. Conversely, the BIG IDEAs dataset [ 13,20] which was
collected from a population with prediabetes and no diabetes has the highest TIR of 97.6%. This
observation shows that BIG IDEAs dataset comprises more stable and in-range glucose dynamics so
AI algorithms developed and evaluated solely on this dataset will likely report better performance
due to the less challenging context.
5 Case study: Blood glucose prediction
Informed by several literature reviews within the field, we observed that blood glucose prediction is
one of the most common task for which AI/ML algorithms are developed within the diabetes domain
[5,22,31,38,41,48,113,114]. This is a classic time-series prediction problem for which statistical,
traditional, and deep learning methods have been used to solve in prior literature. Given this, we
conduct a case study for the task of predicting blood glucose 30-minutes ahead using two na챦ve
baseline methods recommended to serve as benchmarks for comparison with new and more advanced
AI algorithms. The objective of this case study is not to present a novel AI algorithm for the task,
but to characterize and compare the performance of na챦ve prediction algorithms across 10 publicly
available diabetes datasets within the GlucoseML collection.
6

